---
layout: post
title: Mastering regular expressions, 3rd Edition. *Jeffrey E.F. Friedl.* O'Reily. | Regex Notes
---

Regex = Metacharacters + literal characters.

### **Metacharacters**
---
#### **Egrep**
**Outside a character class:**
- ^: start of a line;
- $: end of a line;
- |: a). or; b). to seperate regex, i.e. func in alternation;
- .: any single char;
- \<: start of a word;
- \>: end of a word;
- (...): e.g. 'gr(e|a)y'
- ?: 0 or 1 time match, e.g. 'u?' matches u or not;
- *: >= 0 times match, e.g. 'mis*pell', the * affect only "s", not "mis", i.e. * affect the char next to it, same with ?, +;
- +: >= 1 times match;
- {min, max}: min-max times match, e.g. ? corresponds to {0,1} match;
- \1, \2, ..., \n: backreference, see below;

**Note:** If not specified above, other char are normal char outside a char class, e.g. - represents -, while a range in a char class.

Examples:
- '^cat$' matches cat only;
- '^S' matches an empty line without any characters, including whitespace char;
- '^' doesn't make sense cause every line has start, i.e. every line should be matched, including empty line!

**Within a character class:**
- ^: match any char except the listed chars, here ^ must close to the first [ of the char class;
- -: a). a range, e.g. [0-9a-zA-Z]; b). "-" locates at the start point of a char class, i.e. [-xx], here "-" corresponds to normal char "-", rather than a meaning of range;
- ? or .: corresponds to normal char ? and .;
- 
### **Character Classes "[ ]"**
---
#### **Egrep**
'gr[ea]y' matches grey or gray;

### **Alternation "( )"**
---
e.g. 'gr[ea]y' == 'gr(a|e)y' == grey or gray, but 'gr[a|e]y'doesn't work, as "|" here means only normal char as a and e!
**Note:** Pay attention to the diff between char class and alternation. Char classes only match single char of the target matching, while alternations can match any length of context, as alternations could be a whole regex to match long chars.

### **backreference "\1, \2...\n"**
---
To restore the result of matching in a variable (e.g. $1), e.g. use '\<([A-Za-z]+) +\1\>' to find duplicate words.

### **Escape "\"** To escape the origin meaning of metacharacters. However, "\" doesn't work in char classes, i.e. deem as normal char.

### **Perl**
---
---
- perl -w: Good habit! Report potential warrning msn while executing the script;
- printf: print formatted, e.g. printf "%.2f C is %.2f F. \n", $x, $y;
- =~: match;
- m//: m to match regex, // to contain the regex express;
- m//i: matching while case insensitive;
- \1, \2, ..., \n: For instance, $x =~ m/^([-+]?[0-9]+)(CF)$/, \1 to restore the content of first (), i.e. ([-+]?[0-9]+), while \2 to restore the content of second (), i.e. ([CF]), **()** is the marker to recognize and restore;
- (?:...): grouping, matching, but not catching, i.e. no restoring to \1, \2, ..., \n;
